README.md, before:

# MBBU Journal Club
---
It is each presenter's responsibility to update the schedule below and update this repository with information regarding articles being reviewed. This means everyone in the lab should have this repository forked and upto date.

Journal Club Updates
---
Date (MM-DD-YYYY)| Article | Author | Presenter | Paper | Presentation_link
:---: | :---: | :--- | :--- | :--- | :---
12-11-2020 | *Interspecific Gene Flow Shaped the Evolution of the Genus Canis* | Shyam et al | Winfred Gatua | [Paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960982218311254) | [Presentation_link](https://github.com/winfrednyoroka/Journal_Club/blob/main/Winfred_GatuaJC%20copy.pptx.zip) 
26-11-2020 | *Comprehensive Assessment of Genotype Imputation Perfomance* | Shuo et al | Ruth Nanjala | [Paper](https://www.karger.com/Article/Abstract/489758) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uh6Hl_tnCN9FPHxXBVDGPQqHv4aMu5G48ISxgEqtKWs/edit#slide=id.p)
10-12-2020 | *Functional dynamics of bacterial species in the mouse gut microbiome revealed by metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analyses* | Y.W. Chung | Eric Kariuki | [Paper](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0227886) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UpCYsYJVkodZrgRpzRG_i4h0RhxyJl-DtDCfjBagOVA/edit?usp=sharing)
14-01-2021 | *High-depth African genomes inform human migration and health* | Ananyo et al | Caleb Kibet | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2859-7.pdf) | [Presentation_link]()
28-01-2021 | *A cross-platform approach identifies genetic regulators of human metabolism and health* | Lotta et al | Festus Nyasimi | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41588-020-00751-5) | [Presentation_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P5P0vhA-o8TYmIoT1UkwvM3XbbyyAVlu/view?usp=sharing)
11-02-2021 | *IBM’S Watson Analytics for Health Care: A Miracle made true* | Mayank et al | Geoffrey Kimani | [Paper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1k_mnG8mahJdSvVbiikFVBL04LFTC6omc/view?usp=sharing) | [Presentation_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1d-D63oBLoszthrm3I5oI7vHZMq-pVaKa/view?usp=sharing)
25-02-2021 | *A Brief history of bioinformatics* | Jeff et al | Ruth Nanjala | [Paper](https://academic.oup.com/bib/article-abstract/20/6/1981/5066445) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YlxyFsrnF67pShl5kbLioi-a29cse7SfFbxRTBVehQU/edit#slide=id.p)
11-03-2021| *Three-gene PCR and high-resolution melting analysis for differentiating vertebrate species mitochondrial DNA for biodiversity research and complementing forensic surveillance*| Ouso et al | Winfred Gatua | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-61600-3.pdf)|[Presentation link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14SuZNBgU59rSdVB-e5BJe0CeUp-jyhE6/view?usp=sharing)
25-03-2021 | *PhyResSE: a Web Tool Delineating Mycobacterium Tuberculosis Antibiotic Resistance and Lineage from Whole-Genome Sequencing Data* | Silke Feuerriegel et al | Rose Wambui | [Paper](https://jcm.asm.org/content/53/6/1908) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1j11cCrxxwYnv98eQpwof5FhCqEJ1WOV_iwl7Rkv6JTk/edit#slide=id.p7)
08-04-2021 | *Molecular Data storage using DNA* | Luis et al | Simeon Hebrew | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41576-019-0125-3.epdf?sharing_token=d2W2PbBlMvR_zDhcnxYnQdRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0PVUBRMJlc9VcYsdFg2SNetpyPZNEaTJF-YYhxMBj3YJ9hsPUHLHfMPvqwixiHFXfgqWmYTMZu_wOQcu8DV_n3M1Q083Vyhy1Z8S7_yylWO51MIS4qv9_13S-4Dyt_bDTFL7PRnU1O_DNDeHEmtdTsiPVLUh63ENd-T_KoTbJ_O0a0oHQvqO7ql8sPrkwbs2jg=&tracking_referrer=www.microsoft.com) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pMBGB_m2M6kyceQW60eQc0l02rblXX2vbzY-OjfK5gA/edit?usp=sharing)
22-04-2021 | *Privacy challenges and research opportunities for genomic data sharing* | Bonomi et al | Nabwire Asatsa | [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7761157/) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qY60fNFnb2MWVMfmV6o7XoAdViXTzRn8FwaOxbvEY5g/edit#slide=id.p) 
6-05-2021 | *COVID-19 vaccines: where we stand and challenges ahead.* | Forni et al | Kauthar Omar | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41418-020-00720-9) | [Presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vokp3xYIYHj1P6ToBcwoGCqVh8WYMY1WbDbvFIHQAv8/edit?usp=sharing)
20-05-2021 | *TensorFlow: Biology’s Gateway to Deep Learning?* | Ladislav et al | Wilson Mudaki | [Paper](https://www.cell.com/cell-systems/fulltext/S2405-4712(16)00010-7) | [Presentation link](https://github.com/mbbu/Journal_Club/blob/main/presentations/present.pdf)
03-06-2021 | *Unmapped exome reads implicate a role for Anelloviridae in childhood HIV-1 long-term non-progression* | S. Mwesigwa et al. | Kariuki Eric | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41525-021-00185-w) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JIi0fToXyxqmYgqCx7a_JQL7whJnPIasbORyzB4UdvY/edit?usp=sharing)
17-06-2021 | *Global population genetic structure anddemographic trajectories of the blacksoldier fly,Hermetia illucensn* | Cengiz Kaya et al. | Caleb Kibet | [Paper](https://bmcbiol.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12915-021-01029-w) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1q1CBvhXBsy4swtMR288UCB80nlITpyDAHWaUL5hh22k/edit?usp=sharing)
01-07-2021 | *Temporal human associations between human upper respiratory and gut bacterial microbiomes during the course of COVID-19 in adults* | Rong Xu et al. | Jacqueline Wahura | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s42003-021-01796-w) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mg8cpEPEkGLp5gdqU1sj4cU4dgQ3KrP7/edit#slide=id.p18)
15-07-2021 | *Emergence and spread of a SARS-CoV-2 lineage A variant (A.23.1) with altered spike protein in Uganda* | Bugembe et al. | Parcelli Jepchirchir | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-021-00933-9) | [Presentation_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XpBFt_MlYM_sj9nLe6DuVrEeCDwHhqkh/view?usp=sharing)
29-07-2021 | *Microbiome diversity in Diaphorina citri populations from Kenya and Tanzania shows links to China* | Inusa et al. | Namikelwa Dorcus | [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7319306/) | [Presentation link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1SSsEu0RS6bPJJLJIS-P5N86mThfZ-cdD/view?usp=sharing)
12-08-2021 | *Impact of commonly used drugs on the composition and metabolic function of the gut microbiota* | Arnau vich vila et al. | Bole Kadiro | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-14177-z) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1p8MmTAbI2eA8o6Vi5RKPkx5Lk0L4iFer/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=105044941427727381058&rtpof=true&sd=true)
26-08-2021 | *Tracking the introduction and spread of SARS-CoV-2 in coastal Kenya* | George Githinji et al. | Brenda Kamau | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-25137-x) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cQ4qBEJrE9zl2STNkbRBmIUCKJtW6xV5/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=115597905508400499422&rtpof=true&sd=true)
09-09-2021 | *Transcriptional Analysis of Human Skin Lesions Identifies Tryptophan-2,3-Deoxygenase as a Restriction Factor for Cutaneous Leishmania* | Vasco Rodrigues et al. | John Njogu | [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6788307/) | [Presentation_link](https://github.com/jnnjogu/Journal_Club/files/7136945/journal-club-presentation_john-njogu.pptx)
23-09-2021 | *Identification of Viruses and Viroids Infecting Tomato and Pepper Plants in Vietnam by Metatranscriptomics* |Choi et al., 2020 | Oscar Mwaura | [paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7593927/) | [presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bmmwPIevOvbsQXfITC6SPp5QnhNg5e9i/edit#slide=id.p1)
07-10-2021 | *Neoantigens in cancer immunotherapy* |Ton et al., 2015 | Ruth Nanjala | [paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25838375/) | [presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ju6hQ2d1D5J8eQ-y0Q4-s8dRc_Sixg4YrEooPVSWMGo/edit#slide=id.gcb38ac85c3_0_255)
21-10-2021 | *Genome-Wide Association Study of Loneliness Demonstrates a Role for Common Variation.* | Gao et al., 2016 | Laurah Ondari | [paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27629369/) | [presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1KS8FyAwATLe8xz7Jx09aTDQpeXYGNwS7t_P3ID-5vKE/edit#slide=id.gf9abc430fe_0_295)
18-11-2021 | *Oxytocin receptor genetic variation relates to empathy and stress reactivity in humans.* | Sarina M. Rodrigues et al., 2009 | Nelly Wambui | [paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2795557/) | [presentation link](https://github.com/Nelly-Wambui/Journal_Club/blob/main/presentations/Nelly's%20Oxytocin%20Presentation.pptm)


---


When you are the presenter, do the following:
 1. Fork this repository.
 2. Update the tabulated section of this file.
 3. Send a pull request to the master branch.

Commit message:

E. K JC presentation 4th Nov
Identification of Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in Porcine MAOA Gene Associated with Aggressive Behavior of Weaned Pigs after Group Mixing

README.md, after:

# MBBU Journal Club
---
It is each presenter's responsibility to update the schedule below and update this repository with information regarding articles being reviewed. This means everyone in the lab should have this repository forked and upto date.

Journal Club Updates
---
Date (MM-DD-YYYY)| Article | Author | Presenter | Paper | Presentation_link
:---: | :---: | :--- | :--- | :--- | :---
12-11-2020 | *Interspecific Gene Flow Shaped the Evolution of the Genus Canis* | Shyam et al | Winfred Gatua | [Paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960982218311254) | [Presentation_link](https://github.com/winfrednyoroka/Journal_Club/blob/main/Winfred_GatuaJC%20copy.pptx.zip) 
26-11-2020 | *Comprehensive Assessment of Genotype Imputation Perfomance* | Shuo et al | Ruth Nanjala | [Paper](https://www.karger.com/Article/Abstract/489758) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uh6Hl_tnCN9FPHxXBVDGPQqHv4aMu5G48ISxgEqtKWs/edit#slide=id.p)
10-12-2020 | *Functional dynamics of bacterial species in the mouse gut microbiome revealed by metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analyses* | Y.W. Chung | Eric Kariuki | [Paper](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0227886) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UpCYsYJVkodZrgRpzRG_i4h0RhxyJl-DtDCfjBagOVA/edit?usp=sharing)
14-01-2021 | *High-depth African genomes inform human migration and health* | Ananyo et al | Caleb Kibet | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2859-7.pdf) | [Presentation_link]()
28-01-2021 | *A cross-platform approach identifies genetic regulators of human metabolism and health* | Lotta et al | Festus Nyasimi | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41588-020-00751-5) | [Presentation_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P5P0vhA-o8TYmIoT1UkwvM3XbbyyAVlu/view?usp=sharing)
11-02-2021 | *IBM’S Watson Analytics for Health Care: A Miracle made true* | Mayank et al | Geoffrey Kimani | [Paper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1k_mnG8mahJdSvVbiikFVBL04LFTC6omc/view?usp=sharing) | [Presentation_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1d-D63oBLoszthrm3I5oI7vHZMq-pVaKa/view?usp=sharing)
25-02-2021 | *A Brief history of bioinformatics* | Jeff et al | Ruth Nanjala | [Paper](https://academic.oup.com/bib/article-abstract/20/6/1981/5066445) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YlxyFsrnF67pShl5kbLioi-a29cse7SfFbxRTBVehQU/edit#slide=id.p)
11-03-2021| *Three-gene PCR and high-resolution melting analysis for differentiating vertebrate species mitochondrial DNA for biodiversity research and complementing forensic surveillance*| Ouso et al | Winfred Gatua | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-61600-3.pdf)|[Presentation link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14SuZNBgU59rSdVB-e5BJe0CeUp-jyhE6/view?usp=sharing)
25-03-2021 | *PhyResSE: a Web Tool Delineating Mycobacterium Tuberculosis Antibiotic Resistance and Lineage from Whole-Genome Sequencing Data* | Silke Feuerriegel et al | Rose Wambui | [Paper](https://jcm.asm.org/content/53/6/1908) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1j11cCrxxwYnv98eQpwof5FhCqEJ1WOV_iwl7Rkv6JTk/edit#slide=id.p7)
08-04-2021 | *Molecular Data storage using DNA* | Luis et al | Simeon Hebrew | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41576-019-0125-3.epdf?sharing_token=d2W2PbBlMvR_zDhcnxYnQdRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0PVUBRMJlc9VcYsdFg2SNetpyPZNEaTJF-YYhxMBj3YJ9hsPUHLHfMPvqwixiHFXfgqWmYTMZu_wOQcu8DV_n3M1Q083Vyhy1Z8S7_yylWO51MIS4qv9_13S-4Dyt_bDTFL7PRnU1O_DNDeHEmtdTsiPVLUh63ENd-T_KoTbJ_O0a0oHQvqO7ql8sPrkwbs2jg=&tracking_referrer=www.microsoft.com) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pMBGB_m2M6kyceQW60eQc0l02rblXX2vbzY-OjfK5gA/edit?usp=sharing)
22-04-2021 | *Privacy challenges and research opportunities for genomic data sharing* | Bonomi et al | Nabwire Asatsa | [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7761157/) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qY60fNFnb2MWVMfmV6o7XoAdViXTzRn8FwaOxbvEY5g/edit#slide=id.p) 
6-05-2021 | *COVID-19 vaccines: where we stand and challenges ahead.* | Forni et al | Kauthar Omar | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41418-020-00720-9) | [Presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vokp3xYIYHj1P6ToBcwoGCqVh8WYMY1WbDbvFIHQAv8/edit?usp=sharing)
20-05-2021 | *TensorFlow: Biology’s Gateway to Deep Learning?* | Ladislav et al | Wilson Mudaki | [Paper](https://www.cell.com/cell-systems/fulltext/S2405-4712(16)00010-7) | [Presentation link](https://github.com/mbbu/Journal_Club/blob/main/presentations/present.pdf)
03-06-2021 | *Unmapped exome reads implicate a role for Anelloviridae in childhood HIV-1 long-term non-progression* | S. Mwesigwa et al. | Kariuki Eric | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41525-021-00185-w) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JIi0fToXyxqmYgqCx7a_JQL7whJnPIasbORyzB4UdvY/edit?usp=sharing)
17-06-2021 | *Global population genetic structure anddemographic trajectories of the blacksoldier fly,Hermetia illucensn* | Cengiz Kaya et al. | Caleb Kibet | [Paper](https://bmcbiol.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12915-021-01029-w) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1q1CBvhXBsy4swtMR288UCB80nlITpyDAHWaUL5hh22k/edit?usp=sharing)
01-07-2021 | *Temporal human associations between human upper respiratory and gut bacterial microbiomes during the course of COVID-19 in adults* | Rong Xu et al. | Jacqueline Wahura | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s42003-021-01796-w) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mg8cpEPEkGLp5gdqU1sj4cU4dgQ3KrP7/edit#slide=id.p18)
15-07-2021 | *Emergence and spread of a SARS-CoV-2 lineage A variant (A.23.1) with altered spike protein in Uganda* | Bugembe et al. | Parcelli Jepchirchir | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41564-021-00933-9) | [Presentation_link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XpBFt_MlYM_sj9nLe6DuVrEeCDwHhqkh/view?usp=sharing)
29-07-2021 | *Microbiome diversity in Diaphorina citri populations from Kenya and Tanzania shows links to China* | Inusa et al. | Namikelwa Dorcus | [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7319306/) | [Presentation link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1SSsEu0RS6bPJJLJIS-P5N86mThfZ-cdD/view?usp=sharing)
12-08-2021 | *Impact of commonly used drugs on the composition and metabolic function of the gut microbiota* | Arnau vich vila et al. | Bole Kadiro | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-14177-z) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1p8MmTAbI2eA8o6Vi5RKPkx5Lk0L4iFer/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=105044941427727381058&rtpof=true&sd=true)
26-08-2021 | *Tracking the introduction and spread of SARS-CoV-2 in coastal Kenya* | George Githinji et al. | Brenda Kamau | [Paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-25137-x) | [Presentation_link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cQ4qBEJrE9zl2STNkbRBmIUCKJtW6xV5/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=115597905508400499422&rtpof=true&sd=true)
09-09-2021 | *Transcriptional Analysis of Human Skin Lesions Identifies Tryptophan-2,3-Deoxygenase as a Restriction Factor for Cutaneous Leishmania* | Vasco Rodrigues et al. | John Njogu | [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6788307/) | [Presentation_link](https://github.com/jnnjogu/Journal_Club/files/7136945/journal-club-presentation_john-njogu.pptx)
23-09-2021 | *Identification of Viruses and Viroids Infecting Tomato and Pepper Plants in Vietnam by Metatranscriptomics* |Choi et al., 2020 | Oscar Mwaura | [paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7593927/) | [presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bmmwPIevOvbsQXfITC6SPp5QnhNg5e9i/edit#slide=id.p1)
07-10-2021 | *Neoantigens in cancer immunotherapy* |Ton et al., 2015 | Ruth Nanjala | [paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25838375/) | [presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ju6hQ2d1D5J8eQ-y0Q4-s8dRc_Sixg4YrEooPVSWMGo/edit#slide=id.gcb38ac85c3_0_255)
21-10-2021 | *Genome-Wide Association Study of Loneliness Demonstrates a Role for Common Variation.* | Gao et al., 2016 | Laurah Ondari | [paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27629369/) | [presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1KS8FyAwATLe8xz7Jx09aTDQpeXYGNwS7t_P3ID-5vKE/edit#slide=id.gf9abc430fe_0_295)
04-11-2021 | *Identification of Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in Porcine MAOA Gene Associated with Aggressive Behavior of Weaned Pigs after Group Mixing* | Chen et. al., 2019 | Eric Kariuki | [paper] (https://www.mdpi.com/2076-2615/9/11/952) | [presentation link] (https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OKI97juLlw4A-Dp7PkioUIGxiSnEGP_kW_llI6D__tU/edit?usp=sharing)
18-11-2021 | *Oxytocin receptor genetic variation relates to empathy and stress reactivity in humans.* | Sarina M. Rodrigues et al., 2009 | Nelly Wambui | [paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2795557/) | [presentation link](https://github.com/Nelly-Wambui/Journal_Club/blob/main/presentations/Nelly's%20Oxytocin%20Presentation.pptm)


---


When you are the presenter, do the following:
 1. Fork this repository.
 2. Update the tabulated section of this file.
 3. Send a pull request to the master branch.
